# STAT-364-LINEAR-MODELS-II-PROJECT-Human-Freedom-Index-
# CONCLUSION 
This research helps us to compare the types and levels of freedoms such as economic and personal region by region in the world. Then, we can use the results to detect the barriers to freedom and find a solution to worldwide problems. Mainly, human scores by region, highest and lowest human freedom scores of countries, legal system and property right scores by regions are analyzed. 12 main titles are gathered such as rule of law, security, and safety, movement, etc. In that way, It is revealed that the freedom of individuals and social and economic circumstances. In the literature review part, the definition of the freedom and 12 main titles mentioned before is clarified. Then, The data and methodology are explained. The aspects of data collection and analysis methods that are used in the research is defined clearly. In the data analysis part, The data is visualized and explained in details. There is a huge difference between developed and developing countries' human freedom scores. While the developed countries' region has balanced and higher scores among people, so their plots have less spread, people in developing countries have low scores and does not distribute equally among people. Unfortunately, The same situation is observed when the legal systems and property right scores are compared by regions. Moreover, A correlogram is used to reveal the negative and positive correlation between the variables. By the way,  it is easily observed that there is a positive correlation between human freedom score and all of these titles such as sound money, freedom to trade internationally, economic freedom score, regulation, rule of law, legal system and property rights and association at first look. Afterward, multiple linear regression analysis was performed to add depth to the study.  At the first non-normal residuals and multicollinearity problems were needed to be solved. In order to solve these problems, transformation and removing variables were applied. To find the best model variable selection model is used, and the model which has all significant variables is needed to be validated. To understand how the model performs well Cross Validation is used. Since the model performs well, it is decided to use as the final model. Finally, The reasons behind the results are discussed in the last part.  
# Contributors: 
Gizem Cemile ÇELİK 
Dilay SEVGİLİ
Ebru ŞAKAR 
İrem EKMEKÇİ  
 
